(CNN)Donald Trump's turbulent transition already suggests that the instinctive 
off-the-cuff leadership style that powered his outsider campaign is a prototype 
of the impromptu approach he will adopt from inside the Oval Office.

He hires people, he fires people, he sets them against one another, he says things 
and takes them back, with the chaos often unfolding in real time on cable TV. It 
happened in the campaign and there's no reason to think his presidency won't be the 
same.

Trump has only been President-elect for a week. But he's already dismembered the team 
that under Chris Christie spent months preparing the transition and put his future vice 
president Mike Pence in charge. He's set up future competing power centers in his White 
House, including son-in-law and close adviser Jared Kushner, who is at the center of the 
effort against Christie, sources say. And though he's been restrained on social media, 
Trump has still fired off contradictory tweets on protests against him and the Electoral 
College.

It's clear the President-elect is just getting started.
Trump is the only person elected to the top job without political, diplomatic or military 
executive experience. And he ran a campaign rooted in breaking the mold of the gridlocked 
capital city. So no surprise that Trump is already approaching his presidency in an 
unorthodox manner.
Who could be in Trump's cabinet?

"He comes from from a different school of thought than we are used to here in Washington. 
People here, they want everything choreographed. They are by nature risk averse. He is 
going to be very different from that perspective," said Howard Schweitzer, managing 
partner of Cozen O'Connor Public Strategies, who had high level posts in the Bush, 
Clinton and Obama administrations.
"He is not going to be afraid, nor should he be, to throw some spaghetti against the 
wall and see if it sticks. He is not afraid to have people with differing views on his 
team and play around with some things and throw people overboard if merited," 
Schweitzer added.
While Trump's transition appears chaotic from the outside, the President-elect Tuesday 
night tweeted that things are "organized" and proceeding apace.
"Very organized process taking place as I decide on Cabinet and many other positions. 
I am the only one who knows who the finalists are!"