You don't have to work on Wall Street to earn six figures. Several less 
talked about jobs, including physician assistant and special agent, have 
a median annual salary of $100,000 or more, according to a 2016 Glassdoor 
report.

The jobs search site examined hundreds of thousands of compensation reports 
from U.S.-based employees over the past two years. Its summary identifies 
the following 11 jobs you might not have thought of which will pay you an 
impressive salary.

Median annual salary: $143,000

Reservoir engineers attempt to "extract the maximum amount of energy without 
over-tapping the reservoir," the Glassdoor report says. "In order to fill this 
role, professionals need a degree in chemical engineering plus experience in 
a field that is highly technical and nuanced."

Median annual salary: $139,000

If you like to code, you're in luck. These tech-savvy workers make big bucks, 
and there is high demand for them, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
Most need a bachelor's degree in math or software engineering and should know 
how to work well with others, Glassdoor says.

Median annual salary: $134,000

Pilots "need to be seasoned managers and savvy communicators who are comfortable 
with a non-standard schedule," the report says. Commercial pilots usually have a 
bachelor's degree, an Airline Transport Pilot certification and a commercial 
pilot's license from the Federal Aviation Administration. Some colleges offer 
pilot training as part of a two- or four-year aviation degree, the BLS reports.

Median annual salary: $129,968

Before getting licensed, candidates need to have an undergraduate degree in 
pre-dentistry or another scientific field, score well on the Dental Acceptance 
Test, and complete a doctoral degree in dental surgery or dental medicine.

Median annual salary: $125,000

It's not just a job for movie actors. Being a special agent is a high-adrenaline 
job you could land for a government organization like the FBI or for a private 
company. Candidates usually have a law enforcement background or military 
experience along with an undergraduate degree in criminal justice. Nontraditional 
and on-call hours are part of the game.

Median annual salary: $119,380

If you've always been interested in nature, this job could be for you. Geophysicists 
use seismic, electrical and magnetic tools to study the Earth.

Median annual salary: $116,500

Drilling engineers can have a lucrative career in oil, gas or water drilling. The 
job requires a bachelor of science degree in petroleum or mechanical engineering. 
Candidates should be great communicators and have experience in the field, according 
to the report.

Median annual salary: $103,500

These professionals oversee regional operations and sales for their company. "Regional 
sales executives are stellar communicators with a knack for spotting opportunities," 
the report says. "They are always looking to grow their business and expand their 
customer base."

Median annual salary: $101,600

If the idea of eight years of medical school deterred you from becoming a doctor, 
then you may want to look into becoming a nurse practitioner. NPs are qualified to 
perform physical exams, treat common injuries and illness, and prescribe some 
medications. They have at least a master's degree in nursing, and some individual 
states may require additional certifications.

Median annual salary: $100,392

A physician assistant works under the supervision of a physician to provide medical 
and surgical services. Unlike doctors, a physician assistant does not have to 
specialize in one area of medicine and has significantly lower education requirements — 
only a master's degree or equivalent. Demand for physician assistants is high in 
rural areas in the U.S. that face a shortage of doctors.

Median annual salary: $100,000

Equity research associates analyze and report on financial trends using complex 
models. "While the position incorporates much of the excitement and rewards of 
investment banking, it is less demanding as much of the workload involves generating 
information," the report says. Top candidates typically have a bachelor's degree in 
finance, economics, or a similar field.