The eight members of the Congressional Task Force on Economic 
Growth in Puerto Rico have already prepared a first draft of 
the report on possible federal initiatives to improve the 
Island’s economy, which they will 
leave as recommendations for the next Republican government.

“The draft we have is partial. We hope to reach a consensus,” 
said Resident Commissioner in Washington Pedro Pierluisi, one 
of the members of the bipartisan and bicameral committee created 
by PROMESA, which imposed a new fiscal control authority that 
overrides the constitutional role of the Island’s local government.

The Task Force’s next meeting will be on Wednesday. Two days before 
(tomorrow, Monday), Congress will return to session, after the conclusion 
of the electoral process, where Donald Trump won the White House and the 
Republicans retained the legislative majority.

Yet the Republican victory could cancel the plans to approve an omnibus 
spending bill in December, which was seen as a possible vehicle to propel 
any urgent economic initiatives for the Island before the end of the year

It is considered as unavoidable that the report will recommend addressing 
the fiscal abyss caused by the depletion of almost $1.2 billion in Medicaid 
funds that have come from the federal health reform (Obamacare), maybe by the 
end of 2017. President-elect Trump and the Republican leadership in Congress 
want to repeal Obamacare, although Trump has said that he wants to preserve 
the benefits the statute grants to patients. 

The other two issues gaining steam are the full access to the Child Tax Credit 
(CTC) and a temporary reduction in Social Security payroll deductions, 
from 6.2% to 3.1%—maybe for both employees and employers. It is estimated 
that this would bring an injection of almost $1.3 billion a year to Puerto 
Rico’s economy.

“It would be excellent if the report included specific recommendations for 
those three issues,” stated Pierluisi in an interview with El Nuevo Día.

Last Friday, Antonio Weiss, Counselor to the Secretary of the US Treasury, 
reaffirmed the support from President Obama’s administration to extending the 
Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) to Puerto Rico, which he considers will have an 
impact of $1 billion on the Island’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).

Even though authorities on the Island defend the EITC, “it is a measure that has 
a much greater fiscal impact,” held commissioner Pierluisi, warning of the 
complications this could have in Congress.

The proposals in favor of a new tax incentive for investment in Puerto Rico—which 
in the private sector is led by an amendment to Section 245a of the US Internal 
Revenue Code—would remain to be considered for a future federal tax reform.

“There are reservations about going into this matter before the next Congress 
addresses it. It is possible that the report will make somesort of recommendation 
or general encouragement so that Puerto Rico is given fair and particular treatment 
in that possible reform. Both the Senate Committee on Finance—presided by Republican 
Orrin Hatch, who is also in charge of the Task Force—and the House Committee on 
Ways and Means will work on the issue in a holistic manner,” Pierluisi remarked.

Isn’t that more of the same? we asked.

“A new Congress is coming, a new president. One of the promises made by President-elect 
Trump is to reform the tax laws and give the business sector a tax cut. It is logical then 
that the issue could be postponed until that reform happens,” he responded.

Wouldn't there be an omnibus spending bill in December? 

—It is possible that, facing the election results, the Congressional leadership will 
opt to approve a resolution that merely extends once again the allocations of the 
current fiscal year for a short period of time, giving the new President time to 
address the issue.


