WHAT IS COMPUTER SCIENCE?
Computer science is the exploration, design and innovation of computing. 
Computer science is responsible for the tools we use daily, like web search, 
email, social networks and databases, as well as more advanced systems like 
robots, driverless cars and modern aviation. All engineering, scientific, 
business and social science disciplines depend on computation. In the decades 
to come, computation will further be the driving force behind many emerging 
fields.

Blending innovative research with exceptional educational programs, Carnegie 
Mellon Qatar provides students with both the theoretical foundations and the 
practical experience necessary for success in a wide range of fields.

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN COMPUTER SCIENCE
Carnegie Mellon’s School of Computer Science is known worldwide as an incubator 
of original ideas, spawning some of the most exciting advances in the field. 
Students in the Computer Science program acquire skills that transcend technological 
trends. The program encourages creativity, emphasizes the importance of understanding 
trends, and provides the fundamental skills needed to develop new technologies.

The Computer Science program provides students a core set of skills: mathematical 
reasoning, algorithmic thinking, and the fundamentals of programming. As well, 
students gain substantial depth in another area through a minor in a second subject. 
As computing is a discipline with strong links to many fields, this provides students 
with unparalleled flexibility to pursue their interests.

The theoretical component of the computer science curriculum ensures that students 
have the formal tools to remain current as technologies and systems change. At the 
same time, students gain insight into the practical issues of building and maintaining 
systems by participating in intensive project-oriented courses.

WHAT WILL I STUDY?
Students pursuing a B.S. in computer science must take a minimum of 360 units in the 
following categories: computer science, mathematics/probability, engineering and natural 
sciences, humanities and arts, required minor, Computing @ Carnegie Mellon and free 
electives.